Cybersecurity is not a monolith.
There is no one size fits all approach that you
can forklift into your organization and call it a day.
It is a multidimensional field that should be treated like a living thing.
The challenges change daily and you have to stay on your toes.
The adversary certainly does.
Having said all that,
there are some fundamentals that are in place.
If you get those right,
you'll be well on your way.
With Defense in Depth will learn that in order to secure our organization systems,
we'll need several components as opposed to one.
You may have heard that cybersecurity is a layered approach.
There are many different takes,
but for this course we're going with three components.
Prevention, detection, and response.
We'll reference these throughout the course.
First up is Defense in Depth.
By the end of this section,
you will understand what Defense in Depth is,
be able to explain the different components,
and apply what you've learned to your own organization.
Where does Defense in Depth fit in our three component model of security?
It has all three: prevention, detection, and response.
So what exactly is Defense in Depth?
Defense in Depth is adapted from military lingo.
It refers to putting multiple,
and diverse types of obstacles in front of the enemy,
to require additional use of their resources and effort.
By adding complimentary defenses,
the weakness of one defense is covered by the strength of another.
Similarly, if one defense fails completely,
another's right behind it, thus minimizing risk.
For this course, we're going to focus on the following components of Defense in Depth.
Security policies and procedures appear throughout the course.
These along with the principles you'll learn in this lesson.
Will provide the blueprint to guide the implementation of your security program.
We'll learn about firewalls and other network protection devices in later lessons.
Monitoring is a key component in security.
If you aren't watching alerts,
performance metrics, and other indicators.
How can you tell how effective your defenses are?
Aside from personnel and data.
The most interior layer of security is host security.
We'll look at several methods for securing the servers in your organization.
As you will see, the goal is to defend the data that your organization values.
Whether that's customer data,
intellectual property, or various patterns.
From there, we add layer upon layer of defenses.
This is a high level visual,
but as you'll see later,
each layer has potential multiple sub-layers.